well you've probably noticed that the
colder it is outside
the louder the snow crunches under your
feet
it happens because when the snow
compresses teeny ice greens
rub against each other the lower the
temperature the greater the friction
between the ice grains
and the louder the crunching sound is
hey yes no can you hold it down over
there
thanks adult cats only meow to
communicate with us humans
kittens can meow at their moms but grown
cats don't interact with each other this
way
scientists have even found that these
animals are great manipulators when it
comes to cat human dialogue
cats can change the pitch of their meows
so that they sound more like crying
babies
they've long figured out that this way
they get more food and attention
a reindeer's eyes change color from gold
in the summer
to baby blue in the winter such a color
shift improves the animal's vision
because it influences the way the light
gets reflected through the retina
escalator brushes weren't designed to
clean our shoes
they were invented for much more
important safety reasons
you see escalators tend to break when
people stand too close to their edges
between the side of an escalator and the
wall there's a gap
it's almost unnoticeable but if
something like a piece of clothing gets
inside
it may get stuck in the maze of motors
and gears
then the escalator can not only break
down but also damage the foreign object
escalator brushes prevent such accidents
by scaring you away from
nearing the gap as soon as you feel the
bristles on your leg
you instinctively move away
just one bolt of lightning will provide
enough energy for a two-slice toaster
to work for 84 000 minutes it's also
enough time to cook almost
100 000 slices of toast really
getting goosebumps when you're
frightened goes back to the times
when you could only fend off a predator
if you look scarier than your opponent
when you get goosebumps all the tiny
hairs on your body stand up
supposedly making you bigger and more
intimidating
yeah that works for me roosters can be
exceptionally loud
and the question is how do they not go
deaf if this thundering noise is coming
right out of their beaks
simple they have a natural mechanism
that works as built-in earplugs
once a rooster opens its beak and gets
ready to crow
its auditory canals close off and no
sound can come in
that's not quite fair isn't it airlines
have minimized the space
allotted to our gluteus maximus from a
comfy 34 inches per seat
to a tight 29. candy's confusing
some familiar favorites have shrunk over
the decades
here's a word for when the amount you
buy shrinks but the price remains the
same
shrink-flation but what do you call it
when just the price shrinks
a bargain not only have library fines
been shrinking
some libraries have ditched them all
together
ironically this made their losses shrink
too
people return more books when they
aren't penalized
as you age it's harder to lose weight
everywhere except the brain
after age 40 we lose about five percent
of our brain weight a decade
we shrink each day that we spend walking
or sitting
the pads between our vertebrae get
compressed by the weight of all the
spine above them
but these pads puff up again while we
sleep
until we hit 40 when those discs stop
plumping up like they used to on average
men will lose about an inch and women
will lose two inches
not the gum we chew with our teeth but
the gums holding them together
as we age our gums recede giving the
impression that our teeth are getting
longer
hence the expression long in the tooth a
microsoft study found that
while people had an average attention
span of 12 seconds in the year 2000
it's now dropped to 8 seconds
that's less than a goldfish they will
focus for 9 seconds
the ads we watch are designed to shrink
once shot commercials get cut into a
variety of shorter lengths
after you've seen the one minute version
expect a 45 second
30 second and a 15 second version to
follow
15 seconds is plenty because the time we
need to pick up media cues has also
shrunk
that's why the action in old movies
seems so
slow throughout the 1900s
product jingles for brands like coke and
pepsi were written as songs
complete with verses and bridges today
the 30-second version of a commercial is
the most common show
it's simply not enough time for the
whole song
but you can still fit in we are farmers
around 360 million years ago there was
so much
oxygen in the air that the earth was
home to giant
insects some of them could spread their
wings up to 28 inches in length
that's a big bug the word
okay stands for all correct yup
200 years ago it was fashionable to go
around and misspell things for fun
when a newspaper editor wrote all
correct with an o
and a k somebody picked it up
our hands and toes wrinkle when we spend
time in the water
in order to improve our grip when trying
to get wet or submerged
objects before trees appeared on earth
the land was overtaken with giant
mushrooms that could reach 24 feet in
height
that's as tall as a giraffe
before lobsters became a delicacy that
only rich people could afford
they were considered a low-quality food
that was only served to the poor
a few hundred years ago even fishermen
use lobsters to bake fish
and fertilize their crops hey
camels have three eyelids to protect
their eyes from sand
two of the eyelids have eyelashes and
the third one is a thin
membrane that acts as a wiper that
cleans dirt from the eyes
unlike regular eyelids the membrane
layer closes
horizontally we blink almost 30
000 times per day if we were to count
how long our eyes remain closed
it would equal a half an hour
the infinity sign is actually called a
lemna skate
and no matter how big a number you think
of it's always closer to zero
than infinity the rarest blood type
isn't a b
negative but something called rh null
blood
in the last 50 years only 43 people were
found to have it
because it's so difficult to find it's
considered the golden blood
and it's worth as much as the precious
metal
you know rain has no scent but that
lovely smell that we sniff when it rains
comes from bacteria that live in the
soil rain also gets the smell from plant
oils and minerals released from the soil
a man named steve feltham holds the
guinness world record for the longest
time spent looking
for the loch ness monster he camped at
loch ness
for over 28 years i hear that when he
was tired
you could see him dragging old
mattresses are notably heavier than the
new ones
because of the stuff they collect during
their lifetime
this debris is flaked off skin dust
mites
human and animal hair sand soil
pollen and many more things you probably
don't want to hear about
now seahorses pair up for life and often
travel around together holding each
other's tails
by the way it's the male that carries
the couple's eggs
you know about albinism but what about
its opposite
melonism melanistic animals have too
much dark pigment in their skin
feathers or hair and unlike their
light-colored counterparts
they look almost black the word
facetious has five vowels in
alphabetical order
if you consider why a vowel then the
word facetiously
has all six and in case you're wondering
almost
is the longest english word with all its
letters in alphabetical order
the cougar is a guinness record holder
because it has more names than any other
animal
it's known as the panther mountain lion
puma
and 40 other english 25 native north
american
and 18 native south american names here
kitty
niagara falls has moved back about seven
miles
in the past twelve thousand years due to
erosion at the base
luckily the rate of this process has
reduced over the past few decades
and the waterfall might eventually stop
moving and stay where it is
now the first watermelons were extremely
bitter or simply bland they were
originally cultivated in africa
just for their water content if you
recycle a single glass jar
you'll have enough energy to keep your
tv running for four
hours astronauts claim that space
smells like a searing steak or barbecue
exactly this odor hangs around after
someone finishes a space
walk other astronauts say space smells
like heated metal
storm clouds may seem to turn dark but
it's just an illusion
thin clouds on a sunny day let the light
through and scatter all the colors of
the light spectrum
this makes us perceive the clouds as
white but the thicker clouds are
and the more water they contain the less
light they transmit
thus they look darker leaves don't
really change colors
they just lose their green pigment the
green usually masks the other colors
red orange and yellow so without it
those warmer hues become
visible and leaves lose this green
pigment chlorophyll in the fall
because there's less sunlight the
chlorophyll can turn into food
your own body makes bug bites swell and
itch
when a mosquito breaks your skin your
immune system perceives the insect
saliva as a foreign substance
and starts making histamine that stuff
sends more blood to the bite
which causes the area to swell histamine
also sends a signal to the nearby nerves
making you itch zebras probably have
their stripes as protection from bug
bites
the stripes seem to dazzle the insects
and they can't make a controlled landing
they either come in too fast and try to
avoid the collision at the last moment
or they bump into the zebra and bounce
off
most salt in oceans and seas comes from
land
rainwater which is a bit acidic flows
over rocks and erodes them
the water collects the dissolved salt
and other minerals
but is still drinkable at this point
once it gets to the ocean
some minerals get removed from the water
but not the salt
additional saltiness comes from
underwater volcanic activity
and hydrothermal vents now
rain makes you drowsy because the sky is
overcast
and without sunlight your body produces
melatonin
the very hormone that makes you sleepy
at night the rhythmic rain sound is
comforting
and creates so-called pink noise which
decreases your brain activity
and improves your sleep quality the
ocean isn't blue
per se it just seems like it its
trademark bluish hue
appears because the water absorbs all
colors from the warmer part of the light
spectrum
yellow orange and red this works like a
filter that leaves behind the blue green
color we can see
now your dog licks you because it makes
them feel good
it releases endorphins in the animal's
body making your pooch feel
safe comfortable and happy it also
relieves most of the stress your pet
feels
plus licking is one of the ways your
doggie can show you affection
now cats regularly lick themselves to
prevent skin oils from gathering on
their fur
but it also makes their coats less
waterproof than let's say a dog's
that's why when cats get wet their fur
becomes very heavy
and they don't like it one bit your
stomach
it growls when you're hungry because
your digestive muscles are contracting
to sort of warm up in preparation for
the coming meal they continue to
contract even after you eat
you just can't hear it anymore because
the food in your stomach is muffling the
sound
now no one knows for sure why we call it
black friday
probably because stores now open in the
middle of the night
but originally it was likely used to
describe all the heavy traffic depending
on this day
a hippo skin gives off a red oil that
protects the animal from sunburn
yes you could say hippos use sunblock
only their unnatural spf doubles as an
antibiotic cream too
now moose have such sensitive antlers
that they can feel a fly landing on them
there are real flying dragons in the
rainforest of southeast asia
but if you're expecting a massive fire
breathing reptile
soaring over the poor townspeople tough
luck
it's a tiny little lizard about the size
of your hand and
it doesn't really fly it glides over a
short distance
or falling with style
you might know of poisonous plants and
venomous reptiles and arachnids
but there are poisonous birds too the
toxins in their bodies feathers
and skin make it dangerous for predators
to eat them
starfish can cover their prey with their
stomachs and eat it outside the body
then they simply bring their stomachs
back inside
well that's handy their relatives
see cucumbers can do the same party
trick except they leave part of their
guts behind to scare their attacker
it's okay the missing parts quickly grow
back
crows and ravens are the smartest and
sneakiest birds on earth
a raven will follow one another long
enough to find out where the other guy
is hiding his food
then the sneaky stalker takes it for
himself
but the brainiest of them all is the new
caledonian crow
it makes complex tools like hooks and
spears to get
insects out from their hidey holes in
trees and branches
a koala's fingerprints are almost
identical to human ones
dolphins have highly developed
communication
they call each other by name that is
each dolphin responds to a specific
sound
mostly they say stop calling me flipper
a bird's feathers weigh more than its
skeleton so there
the most fearless beast on earth that
really doesn't care
is the honey badger they have virtually
no enemies
because they're not afraid of anyone one
honey badger can take on a whole pack of
lions and come out
unscathed these hardcore honey lovers
are also resistant to snake venom
so yeah there's that their cousin the
european badger
builds extensive underground burrows
called sets
they have tunnels and room-like
offshoots for everybody
foxes and rabbits are welcome to share
the home as long as they abide by these
strict
hygiene rules the praying mantis has an
ear between its legs the insect uses it
as a sonar
kind of like bats sea turtles are
constantly crying
they're not sad or anything the weeping
is only because they excrete
excess salts from the body through tears
the black swift is a mysterious bird
that lives
eats and even sleeps in the sky they
don't land for months at a time
which is why so little is known about
them the distance they fly over a
lifespan
is like going to the moon 14 times fish
can fly too
thanks to their wing-like fins flying
fish can soar a distance of about 600
feet
almost as long as two football fields
they need flight to escape from
predators
a google is a number followed by 100
zeros
i dare you to write that down counting
the zeros one by one
a computer term there's a bug in the
system emerged in 1946
when an actual moth got trapped inside a
relay calculator at harvard
squirrels accidentally plant millions of
trees every year
because they forget where they bury
their egg corn
oh that's nuts a rainbow that happens at
night is called
a wait for it moonbow they're mostly
white and very rare
the first microwave was invented by
percy spencer in 1945.
the engineer received only two bucks for
his discovery
that's equivalent to thirty dollars
today
a giraffe's neck can reach up to six
feet in length
yet it contains the same number of bones
as the human neck
in 2009 a team of scientists went on an
expedition to loch ness lake
to locate the famous monster to their
surprise
they found more than 100 000 golf balls
instead
tim storms holds the guinness world
record for the deepest
voice he reached notes that were so low
only elephants could hear how many words
for snow do you know
the scottish have 421 words for the cold
fluffy stuff
some of them are fifal spitters and
snowpalther
now i want to watch the scottish tv
weatherman i'll bet that's entertaining
the skin of a polar bear is actually
black but because its fur
is clear that's right it ain't white and
the strands are hollow
they scatter light this creates the
illusion that it's white
like fifal just like our fingers
our tongue has its own unique print we
also have around
000 taste buds and each of them has an
average lifespan of 10 days
i'm tasting a pattern here in the
english language
if you spelled out all the numbers you'd
have to count up to 1 000 before you
came across the letter
a try it in 1815
indonesia's mount tambora had the
biggest volcanic eruption in human
history
it lasted two weeks it created an ash
layer in our planet's atmosphere
and 1816 became the year without a
summer
a day wasn't always 24 hours four and a
half billion years ago
it was only four hours that was because
the moon was